you know there's a difference there's a
fundamental difference between wanting
to believe and wanting to understand I
think it's the difference between
immaturity and maturity maybe when you
were a kid you wanted to feel you could
trust people that's why you feel so
burned that you were lied to about JFK
or that milk is healthy and this kind of
thing you know but you know what part of
being an adult is not wanting to believe
again I identify as a nihilist because
nihilism is fundamentally a critique and
rejection of belief and if you as a
mature adult want to understand these
things you're gonna get lied to again
and again the analysis of text you know
to be broad that you know to be lying to
you is a crucial aspect of research I
miss yen all right I got a question from
patreon supporter about the conspiracy
theory mentality and particular
conspiracy theories and thank you for
your generous support if nobody
supported this channel on patreon it
would either cease to exist or we take
on a very different format because
either I'm doing this for the fewer than
200 people who support me on patreon or
I'm just doing it so that my daughter
can see these videos one thing and this
video even we're going to talk about
right now probably as an example some
that'd be cool you know I have my
daughter see one day and the the unknown
and unknowable future conspiracy
theories I have been in a position as a
specialist at someone working on
political science history Asian
languages politics First Nations
politics and working on all this
different stuff sometimes I'm in the
pivot position where I'm talking about
something within my specialised area of
expertise that other people don't know
enough about and they perceive me as if
I'm espousing something out of a crazy
conspiracy theory so to give an example
a lot of people are shocked if you know
about what happened in the Cambodian
civil war that that was a civil war in
which the United States supported
communists they supported communism now
why did they support communist well for
one thing one group of communists was
fighting against another group of
communist unbelief I'm not making
excuses for you as foreign policy and
for another thing a guy named Richard
Milhous Nixon whom you may know from
Futurama and The Simpsons
I mean Nixon boy he's really a political
figure who's who's been in mortal
comedy a a lot of you have Nixon I think
he's in more comedy than Bill Clinton
them you know people never went it but
Nixon has become really immortal as a as
a figure in common anyway I remember one
Futurama especially yes he gets
reelected as robot Nixon so anyway
something about Nixon but do you
remember that was said there was a
fashion brand also that was just called
next there was a brand of yeah I
remember saying embassy ads for their
designer watches they just called Nixon
I was looking at wondering who really
wants a watch that says Nixon on it in
2017 don't know anyway Nixon has become
immortalized who knows why well other
political figures haven't forgotten but
he made a pact with Mao Zedong the
leader of China and then that began a
period of a strategic alliance what was
called the strategic triangle of China
in the United States against the Soviet
Union in the Soviet Union's LS so for
that reason China in the United States
were jointly supporting the most
notorious the most violent communists in
the history of the world the Khmer Rouge
the Pol Pot faction of the Cambodian
communists and they were fighting
against the relatively reasonable
communists who were supported by Moscow
by the Soviets however my point is here
if I talk about that political history
with people who know nothing about it
with people who grew up in the Ronald
Reagan era believing that youth the
United States fought against communism
over the world well guess what
during Ronald Reagan's term of office
the United States in this theater of war
was supporting communists and that's not
a crazy conspiracy theory that's a
really basic you know historical
political fact so you know I can be in
that situation when talking about
political history I can be in that
situation where I'm talking about
Buddhism well I I know things with the
Buddhist religion other people don't
know where people stop and look at you
like you're you're crazy or you're
sharing some kind of conspiracy theory
type stuff people think that about me
because of my interest in veganism oh
yeah yeah they think that the factory
farm conditions that I talk about
conspiracy theories that it's really not
as bad as I say it is or really not as
bad as these uh videos these undercover
videos are yeah that's it I thought you
were to say something more like they
think that the milk causes cancer is a
conspiracy you know yeah yeah
that too I think I think some people in
my family just recently when I was
visiting them they you know I was
talking about the connection between a
vegan diet and Alzheimer's and they they
didn't believe it at all so it's funny
but that that's specific thing about the
the animal rights issue like are the
conditions of the factor that bad
nobody's ever taken it that way like but
you know you know what that reminds me
of is because you know part of my family
is Jewish I live my life for Jewish
people when you met Jewish people and
when atrocities in the israel-palestine
conflict came up when their answer would
be oh it's not that bad you you should
go you should visit you should go to
Israel you'll see it's not that bad
you're saying that you're like I've just
read you the details of like 37 people
being massacred when a airport was
bombed by the Israelis or something or
when you know a small like a children's
school in the Gaza Strip was bombs
something specific you've just read like
oh you'll see it's not that bad it's
like what does that even mean it's like
well well people are being slaughtered
but it's not right you know if I took a
vacation I'd see it your way what you
don't even like what does that mean but
whichever slaughterous conditions what
do you mean it's not that bad like what
anyway they think the undercover footage
is right particularly bad right most
places are not that bad like these are
the exceptions to the rules but no the
rules are really that bad yeah but yeah
and also the environmental issues I've
had people that's I actually had email
from somebody in a United Nations agency
pardon me pointing out that there was in
effect a conspiracy to try to make the
numbers more flattering to the media
mystery which is very understandable but
they went through it they sent this me
this email saying look if you compare
this report from 1992 and this report
from 1997 the support from 2002
obviously these are made updates it was
something like that he said you'll see
that actually this guy who was the
senior editor
he was revising the numbers did more
flattering yeah yeah I was in her but
this was somebody was involved in the
process and knew the contributing
authors and knew though but they said
look you know if you actually look at
the footnotes and look at the math
you can actually tell that so that's
that's conspiracy of a very different
kind anyway I could I could give some
examples from Laos and Cambodia fact
that kind of researchers bias creeping
into what you're doing but not not what
we're talking with with the conspiracy
thing look I think you know for me
so so one criterion you're one aspect of
the conspiracy mindset is just when
people see something jarring and
unfamiliar and they don't know how to
evaluate it and they think it's a
conspiracy theory
like if you're totally if you feel
totally out of your depth you don't know
what's going on when you're looking at
Middle Eastern politics or September
11th 2001 or who killed jasmine or who
killed JFK which is now an event in
history you and I both know a lot about
before we got together you didn't but
doesn't happened we we got is one of
many topics we've kind of done a little
bit of research on together just for our
own entertainment um you know so there's
more to it than just feeling out of your
depth or clutching for rational
explanations of things that seem
irrational for me what's really striking
is that people who have the conspiracy
theory mentality what they're doing is
never analytical it's never a problem
solving and it's never trying to help
someone you know this is what I mean
like you know if you actually don't
understand the mechanics of how the
buildings collapsed on September 11th
2001 which why would it be easy but why
would that be simple have you have you
been to architecture college lately no I
mean like you know again my own family
part of their work is in architecture I
D grow up in in front of architecture
steel structure okay your family also
get into it you grew up with a fate with
relatives who were in the the steel and
construction business and so on so both
of us actually problem we first learned
about severally uh yeah that that's
familiar from other things I know about
architectural specifications and safety
and what happens when steel reaches a
melting point and so on yeah like it's
not it's not that surprising to us but
obviously beyond a certain level of
detail you know I can't make this stuff
up I've used this example before on the
channel you know I can't explain to you
the the chemical ideology for why
huffing glue destroys brain cells like
that's that's really quite complex again
deal I know it
believe it I've looked into it you know
I'm confident that that's true and I'm
confident enough to refuse to Huff glue
I mean and to urge you also to refuse
that glue but no if you want me to break
it down for you in that that level you
know what I mean I can't do it I can't
get into the brain chemistry I can't get
into these kinds of details but you know
the the people who whether they're
looking at the moon landing you know as
a conspirator there are people who
believe this is fake or whether they're
looking at collapse of the towers I'm
super xi the conspiracy so step one
kinds the first thing we mentioned sense
of bewilderment being out of your depth
something that's unfamiliar and so on
but I think step to another criterion
number two there's another really
interesting criterion says they sit down
and look at all these facts and factors
and they're not actually trying to do
what analysis really means they're not
trying to explain or understand or
explicate explicate what happened you
know what you can do you can get into
the structural engineering questions for
why did a certain amount of time elapse
before the towers collapsed on Stemper
xi why not more time why not less time
it's interesting its way if what you're
doing is is truly analytical what I see
instead is they they take complicated
facts they present them as if they're
insoluble problems and then use that
presumed fact of their insolubility use
the fact of their own bafflement to
justify some kind of political agenda or
some kind of wild speculation now I
assure you one of the most extreme I
don't know if you'd really remember this
do you remember the occupy occupy
wallstreet period so did you did you pay
attention to the rhetoric at that time I
know maybe something else okay yeah you
know I just say like yeah I think you
had to follow it by YouTube you know
what I mean I don't think any of their
medium probably some probably some
left-wing newspaper is really fun of my
friends her older sister was in New York
doing so one of those one of the one of
the crucial political elements of their
platform one of the few things that they
had in common across the movement was
really this mode of conspiracy thinking
even though it's not something salacious
as September
bombing or an idea which was that they
would argue exactly this way they first
present you with some confusing facts
about how economics works the world
economy and then they would suggest that
the way fiat currency works is
incompressible so fiat currency just
means modern standard currency the same
kind of currency we have in Canada in
the United States and most of the
countries in Western Europe it's the
meaning of fiat currency
I mean fiat currency literally is
currency that exists by the command of
the state but the command of a national
government you know that's how and why
it exists with some minor variations in
England you might not notice but
actually they have different currencies
issued by different banks there were
some variations out there but and then
they would they would present this as if
it's this great mystery nobody can
understand not something that's covered
in every account economics 101 textbook
that every universe student even high
school students to economics do you
understand the present this is
incomprehensible and then the next step
was for them to present their argument
that that the Western world should go
back to the gold standard to having
currency that's based on gold and you
know they did also of course different
people would package this in with
hysterical conspiracy thinking about the
banks and who really controls the world
and a secret you know secret conspiracy
or what-have-you and you know against me
one of the one of the criterias there
isn't a sincere interest and
understanding it's not analytical
they're not giving you an analysis of
how currency systems work the American
currency works or the Canadian currency
works or why governments have
overwhelmingly adopted fiat currency
over gold standard currency you can
really easily that would be high school
level economics you make up a checklist
the advantages and disadvantages of gold
standard currency versus fiat currency
versus other types of currency you know
like really that's not college level
research you could do that you could
engage there they're not trying to
understand it it's sort of they're using
the guise of an expose when really what
they're trying to do is give to you a
sense of their own bafflement and then
say this is inexplicable and that's
going to justify my political position
you know what have you yeah so I know I
didn't get I cannot economics education
and so
you know I write and I assume most of
the people in the Occupy Wall Street
movement
we're not econ Shores sure so it seemed
like a complicated you know like that
was one of the most difficult majors at
least at my university surely getting
into econ was why would it be simple
just like architecture before why would
like the way world markets were why
would it be simple yeah yeah so I can
see people saying it's so complicated
there has to be some some other
explanation well and both both in the
left and the right I think there's
always been a tendency to want to
present the status quo as something
that's about to implode you know I mean
so left left wingers want to make it out
that capitalism is so fragile and so
unsustainable it's supposed to implode
well we just went through that in 2008
in some ways it's fragile in some ways
not it like after World War one people
were carrying money around in
wheelbarrows you know I mean people were
starving if you were begging for food
nothing like that happened the United
States right in Greece and Spain closer
you know Reese's fan I think they did
have some starvation I think they did a
much more extreme but you know anyway
sure I understand economics is baffling
but also so on the Left there are
reasons to try to depict economics is
something much more fragile and it's
about to collapse on the right also you
find people who whether it's there or
they're obsessed with Peak Oil Theory
the scarcity of oil prices or the
scarcity of oil and volatility prices
there are people on the right wing also
who latch onto some group of factoids
and then want to make out a doomsday
scenario I would guess that's just
indirectly influenced by Christianity or
anything you know the idea that the end
is coming and you've got to prepare for
it the whole rugged individualists thing
you know that's that's a powerful train
of thought in you know American and and
Western culture you know get ready get
ready for the apocalypse there are a lot
of right-wingers who literally have a
bunker in their backyard you know they
have food and you know bow-and-arrow
ready to go you know if if they got to
go back to medieval survived ok because
I mean you can edit this out but just
because of Tara and kori McCarthy you
know like sure they have this conspiracy
theory that there's a white genocide
going out like why do you think that
right but this this new thing about
their paranoia so Tara and kori McCarthy
you can watch you just search for the
name McCarthy on my chain
if you want to know who were talking
about I'm not gonna give us an abscess
here but you know what's interesting
about that is what you were seeing on
their website
he wasn't claiming that this ethnic
change was happening spontaneously in an
unplanned way it's not like just though
through migration and economics you know
like the world's the demographics that
will change you know it actually was
conspiratorial that they imagined there
were people in charge using mind control
as a direct quote mind control to you
know to to to bring about these things
so I mean that's that's really my next
point I want to cover too you can really
do analysis in political science of who
made particular decisions historically
and often the answer is secret so we
were just looking at a documentary on
the American occupation of Iraq if you
want to figure out who made the decision
to disband the Iraqi army it's it's not
a conspiracy but it's also not out in
the open you know so like you know as a
hypothesis you might say oh well I I
assumed or I hypothesize that George W
Bush made that decision it turns out it
wasn't yeah it turns out the decision
was made by Paul Bremer
and a very small number of people with
Paul Bremer you might also hypothesize
you might assume oh I assumed the
American house of Congress debated that
like that was debated Congress know it
wasn't oh so no actually this this one
guy Paul Bremer and a very small number
of his of his colleagues made made a
crucial decision in the history of the
American Colonization right but that's
real analysis that's real political
science is figuring out who made
particular decisions now another one
that I did research on who decided that
the United States should support should
support Pol Pot in the Communists in
Cambodia and I talked to other
Cambodians was none of them knew the
answer none of them knew when the
decision was made some of them thought
it was the decision was made under
Ronald Reagan and you know I did the
research and I proved no it actually was
made by by Nixon and as soon as you know
that if you have a feeling for Nixon
spirit oh yeah that's the that's the
kind of thing Nixon what do you know
yeah that's more like Nixon that's
something so you know it's funny but I
mean conspiracy theories they again what
even with the question of who is in
charge you know who is in charge of a
particular thing
or political decision or organization
you know there were you know it's hard
to know sometimes it sort of who is
making the decision give you an example
okay while that wasn't Laos there was a
major reform of the lotion education
system Laos is not a democracy Laos is a
communist dictatorship and just from
looking at the materials and
interviewing a few people face to face I
figured out that their new curriculum
was to some extent negotiated between
the lotion government and the Australian
government the asturian government was
donating money to pay for it and the
Chinese government also got involved you
know it's not a conspiracy but it's not
out in the open if you look at the
textbooks it doesn't say you know we had
a committee of people sit down and
debate what we should teach the children
of this country about their own history
and politics but that's the truth you
know there was a committee and you can
find out who was on that committee and
the answer not some mystery has to
ultimately with money who's donating
money to physically print the books and
it was the government of Australia that
was donating the most money so so they
had the most say now again already
what's the difference between this and a
conspiracy theory maybe some people if
they if they summarize the students oh
this guy this bald white guy is crazy
he thinks the Australian government was
negotiating you know what was in the
high school curriculum and primary
school curriculum for for this third
world country Laos well one of the
reasons why this is not a crazy
conspiracy theory is that I'm actually
just trying to explicate the situation
it's analytical it's it's an explanation
I'm not trying to do what conspiracy
theorists so often try to do obfuscate
the facts make them seem
incomprehensible and then appeal to
invisible powers or something you know
it invisible and mysterious powers
behind the curtain you know so the the
email I got from a patreon supporter it
included you know mention of the name
David eka I assume his name is
pronounced eka some people said David
Ikki the David Icke I don't know but he
though
this is the most extreme extreme kind of
uh conspiracy theory where he actually
thinks there's some kind of aliens some
kind of supernatural you know lizard
people disguised as humans so it's like
what does this explicate how is this a
useful analysis like nobody looks at the
history of the Vietnam War and says wow
there's stuff here I can't understand
let's you know like we can fill in the
gaps by appealing to the fact that
aliens were involved you know what I
mean so it's funny again not to hate on
these people but I would wonder if you
have this impulse in you if you want to
understand the mysterious things in this
world why aren't you reading foreign
policy magazine why aren't you reading
The Economist why aren't you reading and
indeed criticizing you know government
sources CIA sources but elite the best
sources of information available to you
and when you read those there will be
gaps in your understanding there'll be
things you don't understand you know a
lot to do with this trust like yes
expecting that those are all full of
lies like what they're hiding things
okay so okay so alright so this I have
mentioned on YouTube before but ages ago
and I think this is something that
vegans have in common with people at the
conspiracy theory mindset and there's no
doubt there were people who were so
shocked by the assassination of JFK or
for that matter of the assassination of
our case these are JFK was president of
the state's Kennedy and his brother was
yeah he was running for president of
assassination RFK both of their
assassinations are very obvious problems
in the government's official story there
are some people who had that experience
even in the 1990s I remember that in the
1990s there were people who found out
about it because there was this popular
movie about it there are people and then
after that they just said they're not
gonna trust anything the government ever
tell us them about anything and they go
into a kind of very strange phony
cynicism about their sources of
information so to some extent I can
sympathize and something like I can't
that's a response to a real you know a
jarring experience another one I
mentioned before is the I was gonna say
the Bay of Pigs an incident but actually
the Gulf of Tonkin incident the Gulf of
Tonkin incident was a lie from the
United States government that had to do
with making
excuse for starting work I guess you'd
have to say expanding the the Vietnam
War the US military issue in Vietnam
there are people who had that experience
as well the American government kalaiy
about this they can lie about anything
and they went into a kind of total but I
mean likewise I think there are vegans
I've definitely spoken to vegans like
this so definitely there are vegans who
look at public health information you
look at information about eggs and dairy
and they know this is a liar they know
this is negotiated between the United
States government and for-profit
corporations and then they decide forget
it if the government can lie and say
that eggs are healthy when they're not
healthy or this kind of thing then
they're not going to trust anything the
government has to say this is true can
only trust dr. Greger you can only trust
someone with a medical degree who had
takes more than 30,000 steps a day on
his on a Stairmaster yeah you know but I
mean ultimately that is also a cop-out
right I mean the government doesn't
control the Economist magazine the
government doesn't control foreign
policy magazine the government doesn't
control the wealth of sources we have on
the ground information for all this
stuff you know I remember a real
conspiracy that just amused me so this
is actually the autobiography of one of
my professors one of my professors or an
autobiography I couldn't mention you
he's actually he's actually vegan I'm
not gonna mention him but this guy wrote
he was a former professor at University
wanto and later became a crazy vegan
activist
unlike myself anyway Hilux Thunder guy
but I remember it is out of our he he
mentioned openly he was Jewish and his
Jewish grandfather was part of a
conspiracy to manipulate prices in a
gemstone market in Kazakhstan thinking
see that's an example of a real
conspiracy it probably was six guys six
guys who are trading gemstones in
Kazakhstan and they sit down and say
look we got to do something about this
gemstone market we got we got to get we
got it unionize we got a we got a
control prices here at this gemstone
market in Kazakhstan you know that's
that's that's plausible to me you know
but I mean on the one hand people who
are looking at history sincerely even if
you don't trust government sources any
any you know complex involuted situation
you won't understand what happened okay
in the American bombing of Laos the
United States dropped more bombs on Laos
a tiny country that at that time
definitely had fewer than 5 million
people maybe only 3 million people in
Laos they dropped more bombs on Laos
than they dropped on all of Germany in
World War two it seems crazy why now you
know if you don't trust government
sources you can read things from
journalists who were there you can read
all kinds of first-person perspective
accounts there's sort of a wealth of
information and you know with some of
that some of the decisions you may get
the feeling that there is a a conspiracy
in the sense that there were other
people involved in these decisions you
don't know about and you can probably do
research on that and figure it out you
know sometimes they put it this way
there were other people sitting around
the roundtable there were other
interests at the table that were part of
making these decisions that that's what
a real part of history you know what I
mean and a lot of those people also
write on the biographies you know you
know those people
20 years later it's not secret anymore
they're the ones out of it but of course
the other factor is the other factor is
chaos you know I think people who
believe in conspiracy theories they want
to believe that everything's under
control they would rather believe there
are secret and evil forces controlling
things than admit to themselves the
extent to which a lot of this stuff is
out of control
yeah you know like to some extent what
the US did it's highly improvised and
not well thought through and didn't have
a grand plan didn't have a master scheme
you know says this crazy racist theory
from Tara Tara McCarthy Enquirer
McCarthy
they're looking at world politics as if
all these things are planned I mean you
know I think one of the if you're if
you're really a critic of immigration
policy in a lot of that there is no plan
well of time nobody in government is
giving careful forethought to the future
you don't I mean I wasn't was there a
careful plan to destroy Medicare and in
America I don't know you guys made a
mess of it but you know it may be it may
be spontaneous and unplanned yeah sorry
there's a free-flowing conversation for
25 minutes at this point but yeah I
think you know first and foremost people
were into conspiracy theories are people
probably want to on some level make the
world a better place or want to at least
understand the world but they feel out
of their depth they feel baffled when
confronted with genuinely complex and
difficult understand things that may be
September 11th that may be how the stock
market works are the bank international
banking system works how fiat currency
works all these examples we've had maybe
why certain things happened or didn't
happen in the Vietnam War
also involuted complex difficult to
understand but not impossible to
understand really not really you could
you can do the work you can you can do
the original research you can feel
empowered and enlightened by doing
honest research but then the problem is
they respond to this this feeling of
being baffled by not engaging in a
sincere analysis and seeking out other
sources on the internet that don't
engage in a sincere analysis seeking out
sources that really just take this sense
of bafflement and exaggerate it make it
seem that these things are
incomprehensible and therefore must be
concealing something and now this is the
trick this is bringing your audience and
people who promote conspiracy theories
they often do this some some sense of
flair and showmanship Lucia but here's
the key here's the golden key here's the
secret I'm gonna give you I'm gonna tell
you something that the people with PhDs
don't know I'm gonna tell you something
all the experts don't know we hear that
so much with health scams as well as
political scams and economic slam
doctors won't tell you Yeah right there
was this whole stupid it's it's finally
collapsed but there was this whole
stupid movement of the zeitgeist
movement and it was based on 100%
economics but really a lot of
it was from the position of like drawing
in the audience saying oh but here's the
real truth about how the banking system
works here's what nobody else
understands here's what all the people
in the ivory tower over there patients
understand and it's like dude like if
you're just using a normal dictionary
not even a dictionary of economic terms
you could tell most of our economic
analysis didn't make sense anyway sorry
but that was a complete complete
movement so drawing people in
exaggerating this sense of bafflement
instead of engaging in some kind of some
kind of sincere analysis or explication
it would have you and then again I think
maybe my third or fourth point maybe I'm
skipping one was to talk about you know
an impulse of wanting to believe
the world is under control that these
complex situations down to their minutia
they'd rather believe that there's a
conspiracy that rather believed even
that there's an evil conspiracy
controlling these things than to admit
the extent to which they may be
improvised uncontrolled they may reflect
like government incompetence as opposed
to a government conspiracy and and I
think we already said maybe was point
three nine point four there's also a
lack of any sincere engagement with
answering the question of who makes
decisions yeah whether you're looking at
the decisions made in the in the Iraq
war say in the emergency response ten
eleven another great example you know
there were conspiracy theories about the
u.s. response to Hurricane Katrina the
hurricane that wiped out New Orleans you
know it's easy to generate conspiracy
there's a lot of it was incompetence
it's shocking incompetence it may even
be criminal incompetence but you know
people were told this is a secret
planned you know wiped out this in that
population or to you know take land away
from these there were all these crazy
conspiracy theories but again if you're
doing sincere analysis you can look at
who is in charge who's making decisions
and again it doesn't mean they're angels
I'm not exculpating these people who's
making decisions how are they made
that's really classical political
science and you will find that
information in a lot of reputable
sources it takes some thinking it takes
some work but there's there's no reason
even and again the other factor we met
we mentioned this this list even if you
feel burnt that in the past you were
lied to you were lied to about who shot
JFK you relied to about who shot RFK you
were lied to about milk and eggs being
healthy when they're not okay get your
heart broken pick yourself up by the
bootstraps and get ready to have your
heart broken again you know you never
been lied to before homie yeah should
life's rough that way your employer is
gonna lie to you your best friend is
gonna lie to you some girl you met in a
bar is gonna lie to you you don't I mean
like in life you get lied to and you get
light too often but people who don't
have a motive nearly as strong as the
people who murdered JFK and RFK okay
like they had reasons to lie to you you
know
but sure you know you use that's why I
don't want kids to think that there is a
Santa Claus that's the first thing or
the Tooth Fairy right well or you know
the the Noah's Ark thing why why do they
want children to believe in this in this
story you know there's a difference
there's a fundamental difference between
wanting to believe and wanting to
understand I think it's the difference
between immaturity and maturity you know
what I mean maybe when you were a kid
you wanted to feel you could trust
people that's why you feel so burned
that you were lied to about JFK or that
milk is healthy and this kind of thing
you know but you know what part of being
an adult is not wanting to believe again
I identify as a nihilist because
nihilism is fundamentally a critique and
rejection of belief and wanting to
understand and if you as a mature adult
want to understand these things you're
gonna get lied to again and again the
analysis of texts that you know to be
flawed that you know to be lying to you
is a crucial aspect of research you want
to know what happened in the Civil War
read six different opinions from six
different angles and maybe all of them
are lying half of the time and you
figure out you know look you figure out
what can be verified as the truth and
what things remain unknown or simply
require more research a bonus Yin
[Music]
ba Lu Ciel